# individual-project-Bryantle1028
individual-project-Bryantle1028 created by GitHub Classroom

Bryant Le
November 21, 2019
CS 3892
Final Project Reflection

TO PLAY: All you need is an Oculus Rift headset setup on a desktop and a room to move around in. Simply run the executable and the game should work! Enjoy.

	For my VR final project, I made handball. The reason I made this game was because I believe sports games are an extremely fulfilling activity for children and adults alike. Sports were a huge part of my childhood and some people do not have the means to be able to play sports whenever is convenient for them. My handball game has the basic and advanced functionality of any court based games such as basketball, soccer, volleyball etc. You can score points, with a scoreboard incrementing, have the ball reset on goals, and have an audience watch in bleachers. This game can be easily converted into another court game since it retains much of the functionality. I wanted to successfully create a solid foundation for any of these sports games that could be transferable at any time. 
	I believe VR is a good medium for me to achieve these goals because it provides an optimal combination of convenience and realisticness. In order to play a game like handball, one needs to find a field with two goals, and people to play with. This is an extreme hassle for many people especially if they live in rural areas or densely populated areas. Being able to play in VR is much easier since people can connect in the comfort of their own homes, and even online if they wanted to. However, VR is also significantly more immersive than a regular video game. In a regular video game, only the controllers dictate the game on a screen. But in VR, the whole body is involved with 360 degree vision and the ability to turn and move in a fully immersive environment. 
	There are a few limitations to VR, as it is still not quite the same as playing handball or basketball in real life. The actual texture of the balls will not be the same as a real handball or real basketball because you are holding a controller. In addition, the physical movement will not be as intensive because the field is actually scaled. In addition, the physical aspect when interacting with other individuals will also be different. You cannot be physically pushed when you are pushed in virtual reality for example. Lastly, with many sports, endurance is a huge aspect. In VR, you essentially have infinite endurance because it is not as physically demanding. This does change the game. However, overall, the benefits vastly outweigh the costs, as VR sports games and real life sports games are also not mutually exclusive.
